And in production to the Book of Songs,
Songs is a compilation of sacred songs,
which have been an important feature of true worship
that highlight giving praise to Jehovah.
In fact, God's name, Jehovah,
and a shortened form of it, Ja,
appear almost 800 times throughout the book.
The writing of the Book of Songs
spanned about 1,000 years.
Moses is considered to be the earliest composer.
The Psalms were compiled after the return
of the Jews to Jerusalem from Babylonian exile,
apparently by the scribe Ezra.
Although Jehovah inspired such men as Solomon,
the sons of Korah, the house of Asaph,
and others to pen these moving expressions of faith,
more than half of the Psalms are attributed to David.
The different experiences in David's life
provided the background for many of the Psalms.
The headings or super-scriptions
found at the beginning of many Psalms,
identify the writer and give other information about the Psalm.
The book is made up of 150 chapters.
It is the largest book of the Bible.
The Psalms were compiled into five separate books or volumes.
Several themes are developed in these lyrical works.
Consider just three of them.
Praise to Jehovah is a recurring theme.
Many Psalms praise Jehovah for his saving acts.
Other Psalms praise Jehovah for his creative works,
from the marvels of the human body to the earth and seas.
Psalm 83 praises Jehovah as the most high over all the earth.
Another theme developed in Psalms is that Jehovah helps
and comforts those who love him.
Jehovah is referred to as the hero of prayer
and as a merciful father who pardons repentance sinners.
Psalm 23 describes Jehovah as a loving shepherd,
who guides, protects, and cares for his people.
An additional theme is that Jehovah will transform the earth into a paradise
by means of the Messianic Kingdom.
This Kingdom will remove all wickedness and bring peace to the earth.
Certain Psalms are grouped together.
For example, Psalms 113 to 118 form the group called the Hellel Psalms.
Did you know it is likely that Jesus and His disciples
sang these very Psalms after the Lord's evening meal.
Psalms 120 to 134 are called the Songs of the Ascents.
Many believe these Psalms were sung
as the Israelites ascended to Jerusalem
to attend the three great annual festivals.
The last five Psalms form a group in which each begins and ends
with the words Praise Ja.
An important feature of Psalms is that it contains numerous prophecies
about the Messiah.
Jesus himself said,
All the things written about me and the Psalms must be fulfilled.
As you read the book of Psalms,
take note of how it supports Jehovah's sovereignty,
how Jehovah helps and comforts those who love Him.
And how Jehovah will transform the earth into a paradise
by means of His Messianic Kingdom.